Add hwcn (#2)
simatic-ax/learning-path: 03_hardware_configuration/slides/slides.md

| 02 | Get started with your first AX Project |
| **03** | **Hardware Configuration** |
| 04 | Introduction to ST Programming |
| 05 | Loading and Debugging |
| 06 | OOP Elements of ST |
| 07 | Unit Testing |
| 08 | Tools for commissioning |
| 09 | Package management |

---

<header class="slide_header">
  <h2>Prerequisites</h2>
</header>

<div class="grid-two-col-eq">
  <div class="flex-col justify-center">
    <p>To get started, you need to have SIMATIC AX, apax and all its prerequisites installed.</p>
    <p>In addition you should know the basics on how to use AX Code as well as have a starting project and know the basics of hardware configuration.</p>
    <br/>
    <p>With this you are set up to continue with this learning path.</p>
  </div>
</div>

---

<header class="slide_header">
  <h2>
        What will you learn in this chapter
  </h2>
</header>

  <div class="flex-col justify-center">
    <p>After you complete this training section, you will have:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>Basic knowledge of hardware configuration</li>
            <li>Know how to insert hardware devices into a project</li>
            <li>Know how to use templates in hardware context</li>

>             <li>Be able to administer users through User Management</li>

Reviewer: This sentence should be reworded, I reads as "After you complete this training section, you will have be able to administer users through User Management"

            <li>Know how to perform hardware basic setting assignment</li>
            <li>Understand diagnostics in the hardware environment</li>
        </ul>
    <br>
</div>

---

<header class="slide_header">
    <h2>IT-Like Hardware Engineering</h2>
    <h3>The description of the configuration</h3>
</header>

<div class="grid-two-col-eq">
    <div class="flex-col justify-center">
        <p>

>         In order to create hardware for a PLC, the first step we need to take is to understand how the hardware configuration is described in a textual declaration for an IT-like context.</p>

Reviewer: You're not "creating hardware", "hardware configuration" would be a better wording 

```suggestion
        In order to create the hardware configuration for a PLC, the first step we need to take is to understand how the hardware configuration is described in a textual declaration for an IT-like context.</p>
```

        <br>
            <p>The format in which the hardware configuration is created is YAML. YAML has the following advantages as a format:
                <ul>
                    <li>Text-based</li>
                    <li>Human-readable</li>
                    <li>Can be easily edited with a text editor</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        <br>
        <p>The devices and dependent modules, including all properties, can be easily defined and set.</p>
    </div>
    <img style="height: 400px; width: auto" src="./img/hwl-yml-file.png" />
</div>

<div class="grid-slide-ressources">
    <ol>
      <li>Information about YAML format: <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML">YAML</a></li>
    </ol>
</div>

---

<header class="slide_header">
    <h2>IT-Like Hardware Engineering</h2>
    <h3>Main Hardware Tools</h3>
</header>

<div class="flex-col justify-center">

>    <p>In the hardware environment, there are two basic tools that perform the main tasks. The tools are added with the `apax add` command, but are both included in the SDK. These are as follows:</p>

Reviewer 2: which 'apax add' is required? But you also say: it's already includd in the SDK. So the'apax add' shopuld not be mentioned when it is not necessary.

      <br>The call of HWC via the CLI looks like this: <b>"apax hwc [command] [options]"</b>
      </li>
      <li>HWLD - Hardware Loader
      <br>The main function of the hardware loader is to transfer the machine configuration, which was created via the hardware compiler, to the hardware.
      <br>The call of HWLD via the CLI looks like this: <b>"apax hwld [command] [parameters]"</b></li>
   </ul>
   <br>
   <p>For more information about the components and their commands and parameters, see:</p>
   <ul>
      <li><a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/hw/hwc">Hardware Compiler</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/hw/hwld">Hardware Loader</a></li>
   </ul>
</div>

---

<header class="slide_header">
    <h2>IT-Like Hardware Engineering</h2>
    <h3>Integration of additional hardware into a project</h3>
</header>

  <div class="flex-col justify-center">

>     <p>To operate a system, you obviously need not only the PLC but also the corresponding modules, motors, and so on. Accordingly, AX also offers various options for incorporating configuration information for modules into the project. There are two options here:</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <p>To operate a system, you need to configure not only the PLC but also the corresponding modules, motors, and so on. Accordingly, AX offers various options for incorporating configuration information for modules into the project. There are two options here:</p>
```

  <br>
  <p><b>apax hwc install-gsd --input &lt;name_of_GsdFile&gt;</b></p>
  <br>
  <p>The install-gsd command will generate intermediate files that are required for Hardware Compiler from the GSDML or GSDX files.</p>
  <br>
  <p>These intermediate files will be placed in the GSD installation cache folder. If you use Hardware Compiler version 3.1 or later, it is located in the .ax folder of your user folder. After this, the hardware compiler is ready to use the information from the GSDML file by the compile.</p>
  <br>
  <ol>
    <li>Additional information about GSDML: <a href="https://www.profibus.de/downloads/gsdml-gsdx-specification-for-profinet">GSDML Specification for PROFINET</a></li>
    <li>Additional information about the import of GSDML Files: <a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/hw/language/gsd-devices-and-modules">GSDML information on AX Documentation</a></li>
  </ol>
</div>

----

<header class="slide_header">
    <h3>Extension GSDML Viewer</h3>
</header>
<div class="grid-two-col-eq">
    <div class="flex-col justify-center">

>        <p>Depending on how many assemblies it describes, a GSD file can become very large, making it difficult to determine which attributes an assembly has and which values it can assume.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       <p>Depending on how many devices and modules it describes, a GSD file can become very large, making it difficult to determine which configuration parameters an module has and which values it can assume.</p>
```

       <br>
       <p>For a graphical overview, we offer an extension that can be integrated into AX code (see image to the right). You can then click on a GSDML XML file, and it will open in the extension (see below).</p>
       <br>
    </div>
    <img style="height: 200px; width: 250px" src="./img/extension_GSDML_viewer.png" />
  </div>
  <img style="height: 200px; width: auto" src="./img/GSDML_viewer.png" />
  <br>
<ol>

>   <li>Additional information about GSDML Viewer: <a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/axcode/vscode-gsdml-viewer">GSDML Viewer on AX-Side</a></li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li>Additional information about GSDML Viewer: <a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/axcode/vscode-gsdml-viewer">GSDML Viewer on AX-Website</a></li>
```

</ol>
</div>

----

<header class="slide_header">
    <h3>Siemens Hardware via Support Packages</h3>
</header>

<div class="flex-col justify-center">

>     <p>A hardware support package is viewed as a package from the AX side. Accordingly, it can be added to the project like any other package. You call the `apax add` command, as in the following example for importing the standard 1500 modules:</p>

Reviewer: You can mention here that installing the S7-1500 is usually not necessary as it is included in the SDK

Author: done - c607b652d16532fe001c82c6b012d03fcf0bda1b

        <p>
        To create the appropriate security settings for a PLC, you first need a PLC description file. The PLC is the central element in a hardware configuration, to which all other modules are interconnected. The basic configuration can now be created, for example, by generating a template from a PLC in a hardware support package.</p>
        <br>
            <p>In this file you can also set some basic settings in relation of Authentication and Authorization:
                <ul>
                    <li>Authentication: The services can be switched on here, such as OPCUA / Webserver</li>
                    <li>Authorization: The basic protection level is set here.</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        <br>
    </div>
    <img style="height: 400px; width: auto" src="./img/hwl-yml-access.png" />
</div>

<div class="grid-slide-ressources">
    <ol>
      <li>Informations about: <a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/hw/language/services">Configuration of PLC services</a></li>
    </ol>
</div>

----

<header class="slide_header">
    <h3>The PLC Security Configuration File</h3>
</header>

<div class="flex-col justify-center">

>   <p>To fullfill the cyber security needs of a production facility, additional information must be stored and loaded onto the PLC. This information is not necessarily generic or even stored in a readable format, how you can see down in the screenshot. Examples include passwords or certificate keys.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <p>To fullfill the cyber security needs of a production facility, additional information must be stored and loaded onto the PLC. This information is not necessarily generic or even stored in a readable format, as you can see down in the screenshot. Examples include passwords or certificate keys.</p>
```

    <p>The function roles can come from the following things, for example.:</p>
    <ul>
     <li><a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/hw/security/authorization/plc-access-protection">The Access to PLC</a></li>
     <li><a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/hw/security/authorization/plc-web-server">PLC Web Server Authorization</a></li>
     <li><a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/hw/security/authorization/opc-ua-server">OPC UA Server Authorization</a></li>
   </ul>
    </div>
    <img style="height: 350px; width: auto" src="./img/UMAC_in_hwl_yml.png" />
  </div>
  <ol>
    <li><br>For More Informations about UMAC on the AX Side: <br><a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/hw/security/authorization/user-management#user-management-access-control-umac">User Management Access Control (UMAC)</a></li> 
  </ol>
</div>

----

<header class="slide_header">
    <h3>User Management UMAC - <br>Managing User Credentials over command line of hwc</h3>
</header>

<div class="flex-col justify-center">

>   <p>Using the command <b>"apax hwc manage-users"</b>, you can list all known users, assign passwords, and create users. As with the other commands, you must specify the PLC name and the location of the PLC config file the user is currently in. Note: Role assignment is still done via the hwl condig file. Therefore, both the config file and user management in the PLC Security Configuration File must be maintained.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <p>Using the command <b>"apax hwc manage-users"</b>, you can list all known users, assign passwords, and create users. As with the other commands, you must specify the PLC name and the location of the PLC config file the user is currently in. Note: Role assignment is still done via the hwl config file. Therefore, both the config file and user management in the PLC Security Configuration File must be maintained.</p>
```

>   <p>Using the command <b>"apax hwc manage-users"</b>, you can list all known users, assign passwords, and create users. As with the other commands, you must specify the PLC name and the location of the PLC config file the user is currently in. Note: Role assignment is still done via the hwl condig file. Therefore, both the config file and user management in the PLC Security Configuration File must be maintained.</p>

Reviewer: > you must specify the PLC name and the location of the PLC config file 

This can maybe defined more clearly. Hardware Compiler does not need the path to the HWL file that contains the PLC.
Generally, it needs the entire set of HWL files for the project - i.e.  the same `--input` values you would pass to `hwc compile`

  <br>
  <p> The command now offers the following options:
    <ul>
      <li><b>list:</b> <br>Lists all users for which credentials have been configured for the specified PLC in the PLC Security Configuration File.</li>
      <li><b>set-password:</b> <br>Sets the password for a PLC's user. If the user does not yet exist, it will be created implicitly. If the user already exists, the previously configured password will be overwritten..</li>
      <li><b>delete:</b> <br>Deletes a user from the PLC Security Configuration File.</li>
    </ul>
  </p>
  <ol>
    <li><br>For More Informations about mange User Command on AX Side: <br><a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/hw/hwc#manage-users-command">Manage User Command</a></li> 
  </ol>

</div>

---

<header class="slide_header">
    <h2>IT-Like Hardware Engineering</h2>

>     <h3>Hardware Device Identifiers assignment</h3>

Reviewer: Wording "Hardware Device Identifiers assignment" is a little confusing since we also have "Hardware Identifiers" that the compile assigns.

Generally, I think this section needs to be expanded a little more to emphasize this is about assignment of Profinet device names and that configuring the topology is one way to do this.

Author: done - 5239055b3012f7718465268b7d3df432632a0118

</header>

<div class="flex-col justify-center">

>   <p>When you set up or assemble a system for the first time, it's important to assign basic identifiers, such as names or IP addresses, to the modules, since the modules are delivered with the same values from the factory. This applies to the spare parts use case. <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <p>When you set up or assemble a system for the first time, it's important to assign communication addresses, such as the IP address, to the modules, since the modules are delivered with the same values from the factory. This applies to the spare parts use case. <br>
```

  The following is a parameterization example showing how different modules are connected to a SCALANCE X208:</p>
  <br>
  <div class="grid-two-col-eq">
    <p><br>The keyword <b>"PortInterconnections"</b> opens the section where you describe everything. <br><br>Using the word <b>"Ports"</b> and the corresponding reference (<b>"Ref"</b>), you specify which port is connected to which port via network cable.</p>
    <img style="height: 200px; width: auto" src="./img/Portinterconnection.png" />
  </div>
</div>

<ol>
  <li><br>Additional information about templates can be found on the AX page: <a href="https://console.simatic-ax.siemens.io/docs/hw/language#creating-a-port-interconnection-between-two-ports-topology-configuration">Topology Configuration</a></li>
</ol>

---

<header class="slide_header">
    <h2>IT-Like Hardware Engineering</h2>
    <h3>Constant Values that will be used in software program</h3>
</header>

<div class="flex-col justify-center">

>   <p>During hardware configuration, values/variables are created which must then be processed or accessed in the user program.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <p>During hardware configuration, values/variables are assigned which can be referred to in the user program.</p>
```

  <br>

>   <p>After compiling a hardware configuration, hwc will generate ST files including Hardware Identifiers and IO Addresses for each module inside the folder SystemConstants. The files or values you need can simply be copied into the src folder of the software program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <p>After compiling a hardware configuration, hwc will generate ST files that define variables for Hardware Identifiers and IO Addresses of each module inside the folder SystemConstants. The files or values you need can simply be copied into the src folder of the software program.
```
